# RAW 264.7 Macrophages

Source : Sigma Aldrich - ECACC

https://www.sigmaaldrich.com/FR/fr/product/sigma/cb_85062803

## References :

- http://www.bowdish.ca/lab/wp-content/uploads/2013/02/Culturing-RAW264.7-Cells.pdf

- [ECACC Cell Lines :: RAW 264.7 -](http://www.cellbankaustralia.com/raw-264.7.html)

- Lorraine Montel (former post-doc)

# Equipment

- Level 2 BioHood o 37°C, 5% CO2 Incubator 
- Centrifuge 
- Waterbath 
- Florescence microscope
- Light microscope

## Disposable materials

- Flasks : 
- 50 mL Falcon tubes
- 5mL, 10mL, 25mL Serological pipettes


## Media

- ATTC DMEM + 10% FBS (+L-glutamine, + Pen/Strep). Note: RPMI + 10% FBS(+L-glutamine, + Pen/Strep)can also be used.
- PBS (heated to 37°C) 
- TrypLE  (Gibco™ Enzyme Express (1X) TrypLE™) or Trypsin-EDTA


### Preparation of the cell culture medium

1.	Wipe sides of containers with ethanol 70% or other disinfectant before placing into waterbath and before placing into biosafety cabinet (BSC). Warm DMEM(+D-glucose) 500mL and defrost Fetal Bovine serum(FBS), Penecillin-Streptavidin(PS), 200x Glutamine(Glut) in 37 °C bath. 
2.	The ratios of the final media are 10% FBS, 1% PS, and 2mM of Glut. Therefore for 500mL of DMEM(4.5mg/mL D-Glucose), add 56.8ml of FBS, 5.68mL PS, 5.68ml of 200xGlutamine. At all times used serological pipettes and micropipettes of necessary. No pouring in BSC to avoid contamination.
3.	Take 0.22 micron filter bottle for media and transfer media into the bottle. 
4.	Connect the bottle to the vacuum suction to facilitate filtration 
5.	After aliquot into 50 ml conical flasks and keep the bigger volume as stock.

# Maintaining RAW 264.7 Cell Cultures

Notes on Propagation: These cells should never be completely confluent (60-75% max). In general macrophages do not like to be too dense. These cells are known to suffer from genetic drift – they are genetically heterogeneous and there will be subclones within the mix that differ in receptor expression, TLR responsiveness, etc. To avoid genetic drift use low passage numbers (i.e. less than 20) and ensure that all cells (or almost all) are lifted during subculture. Lifting these cells can be tricky (they are macrophages after all), trypsin EDTA is a possibility, lidocaine + EDTA works sometimes and scraping is possible.

## Splitting RAW 264.7 cells

1.	When subculture cells reach 60-75% confluency, discard old media from flask.
2.	Wash twice with 5 mL PBS 
3.	Add 5 mL of TryPLE in T1752 flask and incubate at 37°C for 15 min, and ensure that cells are lifting. You may bang the flask to help them along each 5 mins. 
4.	If they are lifting, then remove the cell suspension into a centrifuge tube with 10-15mL of complete media and continue with centrifugation. 
5.	Resuspend in fresh media & seed subsequent flasks with a dilution of approximately 1:3 to 1:6. If they detach ~70%,  proceed with step 4, but resuspend in 3-5mL of media, and count cells. And seed with 2 million cells per 75 cm² (around 25k cells/cm2 ) to reach confluency in 3 days.


## Thawing a frozen RAW 264.7 cell stock

1.	Warm 50 mL of medium in 37 °C bath for 20-30 mins.
2.	Prepare 8 ml of warm media(A) in 15mL conical flask
3.	While its warming, prepare working space and take cells from -140°C freezer. 
4.	Defrost cells 37 °C bath for 20 seconds. Make sure the lid is tight and the cryo-tube remains upright in the bath to avoid contamination.
5.	Take 1 ml from cryovial containing cells and collect everything into 8 ml of prewarmed media(A)
7.	Take another 1 ml and wash the vial again to collect residues cells. Add into the prewarmed media (A) with rest of the cells. 
8.	Centrifuge for 5 min at 1500 rpm
9.	Discard supernatant 
10. Add 5ml of prewarmed media and do cell count (add formula). If number of cells is alright, add 5ml prewarmed media more, total volume of 10-15 mL. Counting cells is not essential step, one vial should contain 1 million cells. If cells are weak, better to use T25 smaller flasks.
9. Incubate the culture at 37°C incubator with 5% CO2. Cultures should be monitored daily.


## Cryopreservation procedure

Harvest cells in exponential growth. Not after a week end !
A good idea is to continue to maintain the cells in culture until the viability of
the recovered cells is confirmed!

1 T75cm2 flask = 2 or 3 vial of 1mL

1. Check your cell culture for contamination from bacteria, fungi, mycoplasma, and viruses immediately before cryopreservation. In most cases, the results of the contamination screen will be available some time after the cultures are cryopreserved (10 to 14 days). If contamination is confirmed, then destroy the frozen material.

2. Prepare a freeze medium consisting of complete growth medium and from 5 to 10%
   DMSO. Keep in the fridge 4°C.

3. Collect cells by gentle centrifugation (10 minutes at 125 x g) and resuspend them in the freeze medium 4°C at a concentration of 1 x 10^6 to 5 x 106 viable cells/ml.

4. Label the appropriate number of vials with the name of the cell line and the date. Then add 1ml of the cell suspension to each of the vials and seal.

5. Allow cells to equilibrate in the freeze medium at room temperature for a minimum of 15 minutes but no longer than 40. This time is usually taken up in dispensing aliquots of the cell suspension into the vials.

After 40 minutes, cell viability may decline due to the DMSO. It's not necessary to work in ice.

6. Place the vials into polystyrene rack at -20°C, or place it in the chamber in a mechanical freezer at -70°C (or colder) for at least 24 hours.

7. After 24h, quickly transfer the vials to a liquid nitrogen or -80°C freezer. Frozen material
   will warm up at a rate of 10°C per minute and cells will deteriorate rapidly if warmed above -50°C.

8. After 24 hours at -80°C, remove one vial, restore the cells in culture medium, and determine their viability and sterility.

# Staining RAW 264.7 cells for live cell imaging

## Nucleus

dfdf

## Actin

ddd

# Fixation and Staining RAW 264.7 cells for fixed cell imaging


## Fixation

dfdf

## Actin Staining

sdsd

# List of materials and suppliers

| Material       | Manufacturer | Supplier | Reference |
| -------------- | ------------ | -------- | --------- |
| Flasks 75cm**2 | Nunclon      | VWR      | 734-2131  |
|                |              |          |           |
|                |              |          |           |
